# ConA1000

Rule | &nbsp;
------------ | -------------
Title | Keywords Must Be Spaced Consistently
Id | ConA1000
Category | Spacing Rules

## Cause

The spacing around a C# keyword is inconsistent.

## Rule description

A violation of this rule occurs when the spacing around a keyword is not same in different parts of the code.

The following C# keywords should always be followed by the same number (possibly zero if allowed) of spaces: `abstract`, `add`, `alias`, `as`, `ascending`, `async`, `await`, `bool`, `break`, `by`, `case`, `catch`, `class`, `const`, `continue`, `default`, `delegate`, `descending`, `do`, `dynamic`, `else`, `enum`, `equals`, `event`, `explicit`, `fixed`, `for`, `foreach`, `from`, `group`, `if`, `in`, `into`, `join`, `let`, `lock`, `orderby`, `out`, `ref`, `return`, `select`, `sizeof`, `switch`, `typeof`, `unchecked`, `using`, `var`, `where`, `while`, `yield`.

The following keywords can have different spacing, depending on context. However, in a given context, it should remain consistent.

+ `base`
  1. When used in the declaration of a constructor.
  2. All other contexts.
+ `bool`, `byte`, `char`, `decimal`, `double`, `float`, `int`, `long`, `sbyte`, `short`, `string`, `uint`, `ulong` and `ushort`
  1. When used as operator in a cast expression.
  2. All other contexts.
+ `checked` and `unchecked`
  1. When used in an expression.
  2. All other contexts (for instance, a block).
+ `new`
  1. When used used to create a new implicitly-typed array.
  2. When part of a generic type constraint.
  3. All other contexts.
+ `stackalloc`
  1. When used used to create a new implicitly-typed array.
  2. All other contexts.
+ `throw`
  1. When part of a re-throw statement.
  2. All other contexts.

## How to fix violations

To fix a violation of this rule, add or remove spaces after the keyword, according to the description above.

## Code fixes

The suggested fix is to have a single space after the following keywords: `abstract`, `add`, `alias`, `as`, `ascending`, `async`, `await`, `bool`, `by`, `case`, `catch`, `class`, `const`, `delegate`, `descending`, `do`, `dynamic`, `enum`, `equals`, `event`, `explicit`, `fixed`, `for`, `foreach`, `from`, `group`, `if`, `in`, `into`, `join`, `let`, `lock`, `orderby`, `out`, `ref`, `return`, `select`, `switch`, `using`, `var`, `where`, `while`, `yield`, as well as `bool`, `byte`, `char`, `decimal`, `double`, `float`, `int`, `long`, `new`, `sbyte`, `short`, `stackalloc`, `string`, `throw`, `uint`, `ulong` and `ushort` int their default context.
 
The suggested fix is to not have any space after the following keywords: `base`, `break`, `checked`, `continue`, `default`, `else`, `sizeof`, `typeof`, `unchecked`, as well as `bool`, `byte`, `char`, `decimal`, `double`, `float`, `int`, `long`, `new`, `sbyte`, `short`, `stackalloc`, `string`, `throw`, `uint`, `ulong` and `ushort` in their non-default context.
